CAPTURE.md, before:

Capturing video clip
====================

Approach to catpture clip in lossless format using graphical preview and frame precision.

## encode video

I use MPV with an encoding Lua script stored in this repo:

<https://github.com/occivink/mpv-scripts> / `encode.lua`

Which use MPV to define boudaries, and send them to `ffmpeg`.


### encode.lua

To use the script, install the file here:

    ~/.config/mpv/scripts/encode.lua


### custom configuration

In order to customize encoding and output settings, a configuration file should be created here:

    ~/.config/mpv/script-opts/<encode_custom_conf>.conf

Here is the config best suited to work with this program.

    # format of the output filename
    # Use an incremental number
    output_format=$n.mkv

    # where to put the file
    # should be pointed to "src/clips"
    output_directory=<PATH/TO/SRC/CLIPS>


    # Only copy one video and one audio stream
    # Video is lossy X264 with CRF 18,to obtain a decent quality
    # Audio is lossy good quality OPUS 
    codec=-map -0 -map 0:v:0 -map 0:a:0? -ac 1 -map_metadata -1 -c:v libx264 -preset slow -crf 18 -b:a 160k


### input.conf

Key binding to trigger the script have to be defined in this main config:

    ~/.config/mpv/input.conf

Encoding script and custom configuration have to be specified like this (withouf file extension):

    e script-message-to encode set-timestamp <encode_custom_conf>

Here, the key `e` is defined to lauch the script in point. 


## Frame by frame naviguation

Custom shortcut can be scpecified in:

    ~/.config/mpv/input.conf

By default, `,` and `.` are used go back and forth.
I've just replaced the dot with `;`, as it's more practical on an AZERTY keyboard.

    # advance one frame and pause
    ; frame-step

And when pressing `Alt` key, it move ~1s back and forth (not precise but more efficient as it use only keeframes)

    # seek ~1 second before or after, using keyframes
    Alt+, seek -1
    Alt+; seek 1


## Pasting URL

MPV doest not support pasting URL like VLC.
This can be achieved using this script:

<https://github.com/Eisa01/mpv-scripts> / `SmartCopyPaste.lua`

Put this file in the script folder:

    ~/.config/mpv/scripts/SmartCopyPaste.lua

Commit message:

add auto crop to CAPTURE guide

CAPTURE.md, after:

Capturing video clip
====================

Approach to catpture clip in lossless format using graphical preview and frame precision.

## encode video

I use MPV with an encoding Lua script stored in this repo:

<https://github.com/occivink/mpv-scripts> / `encode.lua`

Which use MPV to define boudaries, and send them to `ffmpeg`.


### encode.lua

To use the script, install the file here:

    ~/.config/mpv/scripts/encode.lua


### custom configuration

In order to customize encoding and output settings, a configuration file should be created here:

    ~/.config/mpv/script-opts/<encode_custom_conf>.conf

Here is the config best suited to work with this program.

    output_format=$n.mkv
    output_directory=~/videos/carnet
    codec=-map -0 -map 0:v:0? -map 0:a:0? -sn -dn -ac 1 -map_metadata -1 -c:v libx264 -preset slow -crf 18 -b:a 160k

### input.conf

Key binding to trigger the encode script have to be defined in this main config:

    ~/.config/mpv/input.conf

Encoding script and custom configuration have to be specified like this (withouf file extension):

    e script-message-to encode set-timestamp <encode_custom_conf>

Here, the key `e` is defined to lauch the script in point. 


## Auto crop

For movies that have black bars or that mix multiple aspect ratios,
It's convenient to crop the video before encoding clips.

To achieve this, we can use the wonderfull script provided by Ashyni:

<https://github.com/Ashyni/mpv-scripts>/`dynamic-crop.lua`

This will automatically detect the aspect ratio and crop the movie at any playback position.
It only work when hardware acceleration is off. (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>H</kbd> to toogle)

<kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> will cycle through croping modes.


## Frame by frame naviguation

Custom shortcut can be scpecified in:

    ~/.config/mpv/input.conf

By default, `,` and `.` are used go back and forth.
I've just replaced the dot with `;`, as it's more practical on an AZERTY keyboard.

    # advance one frame and pause
    ; frame-step

And when pressing `Alt` key, it move ~1s back and forth (not precise but more efficient as it use only keeframes)

    # seek ~1 second before or after, using keyframes
    Alt+, seek -1
    Alt+; seek 1


## Pasting URL

MPV doest not support pasting URL like VLC.
This can be achieved using this script:

<https://github.com/Eisa01/mpv-scripts> / `SmartCopyPaste.lua`

Put this file in the script folder:

    ~/.config/mpv/scripts/SmartCopyPaste.lua
